WebAuthn Doc 04 - WebAuthn Admin UI/Guide (#1733)
FusionAuth/fusionauth-site: site/docs/v1/tech/admin-guide/webauthn.adoc

---
layout: doc
title: Configure WebAuthn
description: Learn how to configure WebAuthn for FusionAuth
navcategory: admin
---

include::docs/v1/tech/shared/_advanced-edition-blurb.adoc[]

== Overview

WebAuthn provides the ability for users to authenticate in their browser using the same method they use to unlock their device, like a biometric scan or PIN. WebAuthn has some big security benefits over the traditional username and password. Read on to learn how to configure WebAuthn in your FusionAuth instance.

* <<What is WebAuthn>>
* <<Configuring WebAuthn>>

> ** <<Tenant Configuration>>

Reviewer: This is a style thing and I don't know if we're entirely consistent, but I'd make Tenant and Application Configuration Top Level (so `==`).

*** <<Relying party Id>>
*** <<Workflow settings>>
** <<Application Configuration>>

== What is WebAuthn

WebAuthn is a W3C https://www.w3.org/TR/webauthn-2/[specification] that defines an API to create and use public-key credentials in web applications. Check out FusionAuth's link:/blog/2022/09/13/what-is-webauthn-why-do-you-care[WebAuthn blog post] for more information on the basics of WebAuthn and its security benefits.

> == Configuring WebAuthn

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: And let the tenant and application configuration sections stand for themselves.

You can enable WebAuthn in your FusionAuth instance with a few configuration changes. This section explains these configuration options and provides detail to help you choose the best options for your instance.

=== Tenant Configuration
The bulk of WebAuthn configuration happens at the tenant level, including Relying Party settings and authenticator attachment and user verification requirements for WebAuthn workflows. Use the WebAuthn tab on the add/edit tenant page to configure these options.

image::core-concepts/tenant-configuration-webauthn-general.png[Tenant Configuration - WebAuthn,width=1200, role=top-cropped,bottom-cropped]

The settings in this first section are applied to all applications in the tenant.

[.api]
[field]#Enabled#::
This toggle must be enabled to use WebAuthn on this tenant.

[field]#Relying party Id#::
The Relying Party Id controls the scope of WebAuthn passkeys (i.e. which sites a WebAuthn passkey can be used to authenticate). More on this link:#relying-party-id[below].

[field]#Relying party name#::

> The Relying Party name is a human-readable name that may be displayed by the browser or operating system during a WebAuthn ceremony. The value should be something that your users will recognize such as the name of your company or service. If the field is left blank, FusionAuth will default the value to [field]#Issuer# from the General tab during WebAuthn ceremonies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Relying Party name is a human-readable name that may be displayed by the browser or operating system during a WebAuthn ceremony. The value should be something that your users will recognize such as the name of your company or service. If the field is left blank, FusionAuth will default the value to [field]#Issuer# from the [breadcrumb]#General# tab during WebAuthn ceremonies.
```

Because it is a navigation reference, I use [breadcrumb] styling.

[field]#Debug enabled#::
Enable this toggle to create event logs with detailed information on WebAuthn failures. This can be useful for troubleshooting WebAuthn integration issues.

> ==== Relying party Id

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== Relying Party Id
```

> The Relying Party Id controls which sites a given passkey can be used on. A passkey can only be used with the same Relying Party Id it was registered with, and there are some constraints on which values are valid for this field based on the browser's URL during the WebAuthn ceremony. Leaving this field blank, which causes the WebAuthn client API to use the browser request origin's effective domain, should work for most use cases, but overriding the value can provide additional flexibility. Next, we'll cover the constraints imposed on this value by the browser and then how and why you may want to override the value.

Reviewer: "the browser's URL" feels awkward. How about this

```suggestion
The Relying Party Id controls which sites a given passkey can be used on. A passkey can only be used with the same Relying Party Id it was registered with. There are constraints on valid values based on the website where the  WebAuthn registration ceremony was performed. Leaving this field blank, which causes the WebAuthn client API to use the browser request origin's effective domain, should work for most use cases, but overriding the value can provide additional flexibility.

Next, we'll cover the constraints imposed on this value by the browser and then how and why you may want to override the value.
```

Author: I used

> There are constraints on valid values based on the website where the WebAuthn ceremonies are performed.

because the constraints apply during both ceremonies.

===== Constraints

As part of its security requirements, the WebAuthn specification requires that the Relying Party Id for a given ceremony is either:

 * The browser request origin's https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/browsers.html#concept-origin-effective-domain[effective domain]
 * A https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/browsers.html#is-a-registrable-domain-suffix-of-or-is-equal-to[registrable domain suffix] of the browser request origin's effective domain

> It's easier to explain with an example. If your login page is at `\https://auth.example.com/oauth2/authorize`, then the effective domain is `auth.example.com`. The following are valid Relying Party Ids:

Reviewer: You might consider using piedpiper.com instead of example.com. We have some of that sprinkled through our docs and some people like it.

 * `auth.example.com` - matches the effective domain
 * `example.com` - a registrable suffix of the effective domain

But the following values are _not_ valid:

 * `m.auth.example.com` - a subdomain of the effective domain
 * `com` - this is a suffix of the effective domain but not registrable

> Remember, these constraints are based on the domain the user sees in the browser's address bar during a WebAuthn ceremony, _not_ the domain of your or FusionAuth's APIs.

Reviewer: I don't understand this. Are you saying that if someone uses a custom domain to map foo.fusionauth.io to auth.piedpiper.com, and the user visits auth.piedpiper.com, the rp Id is going to be related to the latter?

Or are you saying something else?

Reviewer: If the former, I'd make it explicit: "If you are using a proxy or other means to serve up authentication pages for multiple domains, the domain the user sees in the browser is what matters, not the true hostname of the server.

 * `login.example.com` - a legacy domain that is still in use for some portion of users

If you leave the [field]#Relying party Id# blank, passkeys will be scoped to these exact domains. This means that a user who registers a passkey on their MacBook at `auth.example.com`, which is then synced to their other Apple devices via iCloud, would not be able to use that same passkey on their iPhone at `m.auth.example.com`. It also means that a user who registers a passkey on the legacy `login.example.com` would not be able to use that passkey on `auth.example.com` once they have been migrated to the new login domain.

There are a couple of options to override the Relying Party Id to improve the flexibility and usefulness of WebAuthn. Here are the override options available assuming all three login domains use the same FusionAuth instance and keeping in mind the constraints from the previous section:

 * `auth.example.com` - this value would allow users to share the same passkey between `auth.example.com` and `m.auth.example.com`, but it would prevent users from registering or using passkeys on the `login.example.com` legacy domain

>  * `example.com` - this value functions the same as using `auth.example.com` with the added benefit that users would be allowed to register and use passkeys on `login.example.com` _and_ continue using those same passkeys once they are migrated to the new `auth.example.com` domain

Reviewer: Is this the recommended option? Certainly seems to give the most flexibility.

Author: The spec does not give a recommendation. That is what I would recommend to provide the most flexibility in case of multiple sub-domains and potential migrations.

Should I make the recommendation explicit? Or let the reader decide what's best?

==== Workflow settings

image::core-concepts/tenant-configuration-webauthn-workflow.png[Tenant Configuration - WebAuthn workflow settings,width=1200, role=top-cropped,bottom-cropped]

Each WebAuthn workflow has the same set of configuration options.

[.api]
[field]#Enabled#::

> Enabling this toggle will enable the associated workflow for applications belonging to this tenant. The availability of a workflow can be overridden at the application level using the link:#application-configuration[Application Configuration].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enabling this toggle will enable the associated workflow for all applications belonging to this tenant. The availability of a workflow can be overridden at the application level using the link:#application-configuration[Application Configuration].
```

[field]#User verification#::
This setting controls whether user verification is required for registration and authentication ceremonies when using the associated workflow. See the section link:#user-verification[below] for recommendations on configuring this option.

===== Authenticator attachment

There are two link:https://www.w3.org/TR/webauthn-2/#authenticator-attachment-modality[authenticator attachment modalities] in WebAuthn.

 * `platform` - the authenticator is integrated with the client device
 * `cross-platform` - the authenticator is removable from the client device and can be used with other client devices

The workflow settings allow limiting the associated workflow to one attachment only or allowing either. The value is used to limit eligible authenticators to those that are best suited for the workflow. The authenticator attachment preference only impacts the WebAuthn registration ceremony. These are the recommended values for available WebAuthn workflows:

 * Bootstrap - Cross-platform only. The bootstrap workflow can be used to sign in on a new device using WebAuthn. If the authenticator is integrated with the client device, it cannot be used on another.

>  * Re-authentication - Platform only. In order to ensure that the authenticator is available for repeated logins on the same device, it is best to limit authenticator selection to those integrated with the client device.

Reviewer: I might argue 'either' is a better value here.

Author: Agreed and updated for the bootstrap workflow.

Given that the intent of re-authentication is to streamline repeated logins from the same device, `Platform only` still makes more sense.

> :advanced_feature: WebAuthn cross-platform authenticators

Reviewer: Did you mean this to be enteprise only? Isn't all of webauthn limited to essentials and enterprise?

Author: Yeah. Good catch.

include::docs/v1/tech/shared/_advanced-edition-blurb-api.adoc[]

:advanced_feature!:

===== User verification

There are three options for the link:https://www.w3.org/TR/webauthn-2/#enum-userVerificationRequirement[user verification requirement] defined by WebAuthn.

 * `Required` - user verification is required to successfully complete the WebAuthn ceremony
 * `Preferred` - user verification is preferred for the WebAuthn ceremony, but it will not fail if user verification is not provided
 * `Discouraged` - user verification should not be provided for the WebAuthn ceremony

> The workflow settings allow selecting the preference for user verification. If the workflow allows a user to authenticate, it is _highly_ recommended to require user verification. If user authentication is not required, anyone with access to the authenticator could use it to authenticate as the user that owns the passkey.

Reviewer: Are there any workflows that don't allow the user to authenticate?

Author: Not right now. We plan to add support for MFA using WebAuthn.

Reviewer: okay.

=== Application Configuration

The application-level configuration options for WebAuthn serve as a way to override the availability of WebAuthn workflows that are configured at the tenant level.

image::core-concepts/application-webauthn.png[Application Configuration - WebAuthn,width=1200, role=top-cropped,bottom-cropped]

> In order to override which workflows are enabled for the application, regardless of the tenant configuration, first enable the main toggle. Enabling the toggle in one of the subsections will enable that workflow for the application. Likewise, disabling the toggle in one of the subsections will disable that workflow for the application.

Reviewer: So I take this to mean that if I disable the bootstrap workflow in the tenant, I can enable it at the application? If so, what settings are used?

Or is this only used to disable workflows that are enabled at the tenant?

Reviewer: >  We'll probably just display the attachment and verification options for the workflow all the time.

Do you mean that these options will be available on both the tenant and application? That would make the most sense to me.

Is this work that will get done "sometime" or is it currently on the docket soon?

If the former, then I'd probably document that "It uses whatever the last settings were." Otherwise I might a subset of 190 a public issue and point the user to that.

Author: Will resolve in
- https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-issues/issues/1979
